RFC-0522 Ember-Data Deprecate default serializers and adapters (#436)
ember-learn/deprecation-app: content/ember-data/v3/toJSON.md

---
id: record.toJSON
title: Record toJSON usage
until: '4.0.0'
since: '3.12.0'
---

Users should avoid calling [`toJSON`](https://github.com/emberjs/data/blob/1be481a4924b2b4316c1cc151a58328c88903dcd/packages/store/addon/-private/system/model/model.js#L620) on a record instance since it uses the now deprecated `-default` serializer to create a JSON representation of a model.

> To clear this deprecation users may call record.serialize() or implement their own toJSON instead.

Reviewer: Please add a before / after code snippet to make this a bit clearer.

Author: @runspired can you take a look at the code examples I added?

---
id: record.toJSON
title: Record toJSON usage
until: '4.0.0'
since: '3.12.0'
---

Users should avoid calling [`toJSON`](https://github.com/emberjs/data/blob/1be481a4924b2b4316c1cc151a58328c88903dcd/packages/store/addon/-private/system/model/model.js#L620) on a record instance since it uses the now deprecated `-default` serializer to create a JSON representation of a model.

To clear this deprecation users may call record.serialize() or implement their own toJSON instead. The simplest 1:1 refactor is to import a serializer and define a `toJSON` method that returns the serialized data from the model, but users may want to consider implementing a custom "serialize" method that outputs relevant data.

An example of the simple refactor is below:
### before

  `app/models/post.js`

> 

Reviewer 2: missing backticks

    import Model from '@ember-data/model';

    export default Model.extend({});

  `other app code`

>     const record = store.peekRecord('post');

Reviewer 2: missing backticks

    // users the default serializer, will have a deprecation warning
    const output = record.toJSON();

### after
  `app/models/post.js`

>     import Model from '@ember-data/model';

Reviewer 2: missing backticks

    import { JSONAPISerializer } from '@ember-data/serializers';

    export default Model.extend({
      toJSON(options) {
        let snapshot = this._internalModel.createSnapshot();

>         return JSONAPISerializer.serialize(snapshot, options);

Reviewer 2: A few things:

1) This is attempting to call serialize as a static class method instead of as an instance method. `this.store.serializerFor` vs importing and calling is the way to go.

2) If we must show how to do this with private API then we would use `this._createSnapshot()` instead of via `_internalModel`. However, instead of recommending a private API we could recommend calling `this.serialize()` and munging the response as desired or iterating the record directly via `eachAttribute` `eachRelationship` etc.

Another alternative is to recommend using `recordDataFor` although I think this may not work yet (we should make sure this works nicely for folks in the near future though)

---
id: record.toJSON
title: Record toJSON usage
until: '4.0.0'
since: '3.12.0'
---

> Users should avoid calling [`toJSON`](https://github.com/emberjs/data/blob/1be481a4924b2b4316c1cc151a58328c88903dcd/packages/store/addon/-private/system/model/model.js#L620) on a record instance since it uses the now deprecated `-default` serializer to create a JSON representation of a model.

Reviewer 2: Do we need a header here?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Previously users could use  [`record.toJSON`](https://github.com/emberjs/data/blob/1be481a4924b2b4316c1cc151a58328c88903dcd/packages/store/addon/-private/system/model/model.js#L620) to get a simple JSON serialization of a record instance by either calling the method directly or using `JSON.stringify(record)`.

This method used the now deprecated `-json` serializer to create this JSON representation of the record instead of the user supplied serializer. In addition to the surprising use of a different serializer, this creates an unnecessary dependency on the `JSONSerializer` for applications that may not otherwise have imported and uses this serializer.

We have deprecated EmberData's own implementation of this method in favor of users implementing their own (or refactoring away).
```
